---
author: []
datePublished: '2016-09-01T22:16:03.305Z'
via: {}
title: V = P x M
publisher: {}
description: >-
  It’s a big question, so we’re going to tackle it in an eight-part blog series.
  Over the next few weeks, we’ll look at exactly value is, what drives it - and
  how you can maximise it.Would you buy your business?
sourcePath: _posts/2016-08-21-e35dd312-c70a-4e2b-95c9-df79f07f2906.md
dateModified: '2016-09-01T22:15:33.637Z'
starred: false
inFeed: true
hasPage: false
inNav: false
_type: MediaObject

---
It's a big question, so we're going to tackle it in an eight-part blog series. Over the next few weeks, we'll look at exactly value is, what drives it - and how you can maximise it.  
Would you buy your business?

To focus your mind on the value of your business, imagine for a moment that you want to sell it and put yourself in your potential buyers' shoes. To you, your business is the sum total of your hard work and dedication. It probably represents many a late night, some big personal sacrifices and no small amount of risk.

Very little of which will be of interest to your hardheaded business buyers. What they're looking for are real commercial assets with clear profit potential.

### V = P x M

When it comes to putting a figure on the value a business -- especially agencies - the most commonly used formula is:

### value = profit x multiple

Profit is your business's historic financial performance. The multiple is its future earning potential.

Typically, most business owners see increased sales and improved margins as the way to raise the value of their companies. They're focusing on the profit side of the equation.  
However, when we work with clients who are looking to sell a business (and by definition maximise its value), we focus more on the multiple side of the equation. As you'll discover throughout this blog series, driving the multiple is a far more effective way to increase business value.

### Timing

Timing is also a factor in determining the value of your business. If you're looking at your business in terms of its eventual sale value, you'll want to dispose of it at the peak of its profit/multiple potential. Selling too early could mean selling yourself short. Leave it too late, on the other hand, and you may find yourself working through an earnout structure when you'd rather be doing something else.

External factors could also influence the value of your business at any given time. Market forces, exchange rates, pending government legislation and even weather conditions can affect your profits depending on the products or services your business provides.

A formal strategy that primes your business for optimum growth at the right moment will help you get this balance right. Vision, purpose, risk, market intelligence, value drivers and, of course, your own personal goals are all factored into this strategy along with an action plan to make things happen.

In Part 2 of this series, we'll look at the importance of your business's vision and the benefits of a clear plan that all your stakeholders can buy into.  
In the meantime, to talk about growing your business, call me, Dan Egerton on 07879 845845, 020 8133 1845 or drop me an email.